Maybe you've uttered the phrase, uh-oh, trouble up ahead.
Suppose you're watching an episode of America's Funniest Home Videos.
You see a clip of a guy, a drunk guy, handing his beer can to a friend, and then he climbs on a bike and he starts pedaling quickly, furiously, towards a ramp.
As you're watching that, you say, uh-oh, trouble up ahead.
And then the guy crashes.
He doesn't get hurt, there are no injuries, but he looks silly when he crashes.
And so you laugh along with the audience on America's funniest home videos.
I'm sure you've seen people do stupid things that make you laugh and say, uh-oh, trouble up ahead.
And I'm also sure that you've seen people do foolish or wicked things that don't make you laugh.
But instead fill you with sorrow and grief, you say, oh, trouble up ahead.
You may have experienced a family member or a friend make a bad decision.
And you know the consequences of that bad decision will not be good.
You see trouble up ahead.
That's what Jesus sees when he criticizes the Pharisees and scribes in today's Bible reading.
When Jesus uses the word woe, he sees trouble up ahead for people making bad decision.
He knows that they will suffer
horrible consequences for decisions that they're making.
In today's reading, Jesus expresses, whoa, and this is no laughing matter.
It's not funny.
You're listening to Perdido Bay Methodist Church's podcast on the Gospel of Matthew.
Today is Wednesday, March the 4th, and today we're reading Matthew chapter 24 verse 23 through 39.
This is part of the last sermon that Jesus gives, and he gives this one in the temple.
This is the last sermon in Matthew's Gospel.
He preaches in the temple in Jerusalem, and in some ways this sermon, and we find the sermon in Matthew chapters 23 through 25, in some ways this sermon parallels his first sermon.
This is Sermon on the Mount.
That's in Matthew chapter 5 through 7.
because the parallel is that Jesus begins His sermon on the Mount with blessings and He begins His sermon here in Matthew 23 with woes.
The phrase blessed are that Jesus uses in Matthew chapter 5, blessed are, it's another way of saying congratulations or good for you or happy are you when this is happening.
Jesus says that in Matthew 5 that you are blessed if you're poor in spirit and blessed if you hunger and thirst for righteousness.
He's saying good for you.
Congratulations.
You're in a good place.
Now in Matthew chapter 23, Jesus begins His sermon here with a series of woes, not words of congratulations, not words of blessings.
Instead, Jesus is saying trouble up ahead.
Jesus says, woe to you scribes and Pharisees who focus on tithing mint and dill and cumin, but who are ignoring the more important things in the law, such as focusing on justice, mercy, and faith.
See, in other words, Jesus is saying trouble up ahead because you're making bad choices and you're going to suffer the consequences for this.
Today's reading is the rest of chapter 23, and we're continuing Jesus' pronouncement of these woes.
And he's referring to, he's addressing scribes and Pharisees.
Scribes were the Bible scholars in the day.
The Bible experts back in Jesus' day, the people who spent their time studying the Old Testament law, they were experts on the Old Testament law.
The Pharisees, on the other hand, were a lay movement within Judaism.
And it was, they were adherents who focused on living in pious and righteous ways before God.
But in their pursuit of pleasing God, the scribes and the Pharisees, they were focusing on the wrong things.
Jesus ends up calling them hypocrites, which means phonies, play actors.
Jesus tells them, quote, woe to you scribes and Pharisees hypocrites.
for you are like whitewashed tombs, which on the outside look beautiful, but inside are full of the bones of the dead and of all kinds of uncleanliness.
So you also on the outside look righteous to others, but inside you're full of hypocrisy and lawlessness.
And as you read through today's reading, you'll notice that chapter 23 ends with Jesus weeping over them.
and weeping over the people of Jerusalem who keep rejecting his offer of grace and salvation.
Jerusalem, Jerusalem Jesus cries out, the city that kills the prophets and stones those who are sent to it.
How often have I desire to gather your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings?
And you were not willing.
See, your house is left to you desolate.
For I tell you, you will not see again, see me again until you say,
Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord.
As you read through chapter 23, I invite you to prayerfully reflect on whether Jesus would say to you, uh-oh, trouble up ahead with some of your choices and actions and attitudes.
If you sense that Jesus would say, uh-oh, trouble up ahead, then turn from those ways, repent.
and embrace the forgiveness and new life that Jesus is offering you.
Change your ways and get them in line with God's will.
Jesus is speaking these words here, not to condemn us, but He's giving us warnings so that we will avoid trouble up ahead.
Trouble that will come to us if we insist on acting and thinking and foolish and ungodly ways.
Remember what Jesus says in 317.
John, 317.
That's a great gospel to John's gospel.
John, 317, Jesus said that he didn't come to condemn the world, but to save the world.
And in today's reading, in Matthew chapter 23, Jesus is warning us of troubles that will come with sin.
He's warning us because he wants to save us.
My name is Scott Home.
this podcast is produced by Kenny Stewart.